---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Open Source in Communities"
---

# Discussion with Christopher Snider 

This week we were lucky enough to hear from Christopher Snider, the Community and Clinic Success Manager at Tidepool. Tidepool is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization leveraging open source to help people with insulin-requiring diabetes. We spent the past week watching several different videos about open source projects geared towards social good and this really helped alter my tech-centric, developer-centric perspective of open source. However, having Christopher come in and talk to us really cemented this. 

He was personally diagnosed with diabetes and this has informed his career path, pushing him to pursue positions that allow him to contribute to this community (starting a blog and podcast about diabetes, working at the American Diabetes Association, and currently working at Tidepool). It was through these experiences and through following his passion that he met his wife as well as the founder of Tidepool. It was really great to hear about an open source project from someone who is so clearly passionate about the project’s goal and personally uses it for an essential part of his life. 

Furthermore, even though he holds a nontechnical role, it is clear how important the work he does for Tidepool is. He works closely with the development team as well as providers and patients, wearing several different hats and really conveying the startup-like environment that Tidepool inhabits.
I never thought working at a nonprofit or in the healthcare industry would be particularly fast-paced or agile due to red-tape. However, Tidepool is a team of 35 creating software that is competing with proprietary technology and disrupting the healthcare industry. As a result, they have to be, as Christopher states, “ruthless in terms of prioritization”. 

It was surprising to hear that Tidepool originally started as a chrome extension and now has evolved into an entire healthcare platform. Not only that, Christopher also shared that there are hospitals looking to switch to Tidepool from proprietary software costing them 6 figures. Despite not meeting the full list of features compared to its competitors, Tidepool keeps the roadmap for their development public and the whole process is transparent, allowing hospitals and clinicians to feel more confident in switching. In fact, when clinicians report issues, they are turned into Jira issues that those same clinicians can refer back to in order to stay up to date on their resolution.

# The role of open source efforts in communities

On Thursday, we had a very insightful conversation on some of the RedHat videos we watched this past week. We also read *The Cathedral and the Bazaar*, which is one person’s account of how open source efforts revolutionized the traditional software development model. 

Like the author Eric Raymond, the bazaar-style model of open source originally baffled me. How a project passes through so many different hands and still remains organized and coherent amazes me, but speaks to the positive and supportive community surrounding it. 

It reminds me of the open source efforts within the diabetes community, with individuals getting tired of waiting for companies that drag their feet on implementing solutions and decide to take matters into their own hands. These efforts have transformed into wonderful open source solutions that benefit an entire community. 

Additionally, the video on OpenStax highlights the academic community’s open source efforts to create free, updated textbooks. During class, this video was a hot topic of discussion as many students piped in with their experiences with traditional textbooks (back pain, pirating, etc.). I also learned that textbook authors receive a fraction of a percent of the earnings that come from textbook sales. While upsetting, this makes the difference between writing an open source textbook and a proprietary one negligible in terms of finances and certainly bolsters the argument for OpenStax.