---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Study Timer Firefox Add-on"
---

## Study Timer
For the past week, I have worked in a group to build the Study Timer Firefox add-on, which (ideally) would allow users to set custom study timers or utilize preset ones such as pomodoro and block certain sites while the timer was running. Based on our time limitations, we reduced the scope to only include implementing custom study timers. We chose this project because it was a use case we were all familiar with and could relate to as it can be difficult to stay organized and on-task when studying and taking breaks. I’ve personally used pomodoro timers in the past and found them useful. However, when I tried site blockers, I would always end up disabling it because I would still want to visit these sites when I’m not studying and the enabling/disabling became obtrusive.

## My Contribution
Evelyn got the basic countdown working in the browser outside of the popup, and working off of her contribution I moved the countdown into the popup and did some styling to make it more legible. I also worked getting the timer to countdown based on the user-inputted duration and hiding/displaying user inputs based on if the timer was running. Our original countdown was based on subtracting a DateTime in the future from the current DateTime in order to get a duration, so we had to modify this a bit. However, we still needed to record a DateTime in the future in order to keep the timer running while the popup was closed. While I didn’t feel confident in my ability to implement it, talking the issue over with my teammates made the problem easier to tackle.

I also set up our github repo. Usually, github repos I work on have already been created by others, so going through this process and working through small issues like inviting my group members as collaborators was a good exercise.

I really enjoyed the whole process as I’ve thought about making extensions before, but I never got the motivation to actually get it done. It definitely made the whole process less intimidating in my mind and it could be fun trying to continue development. 

## What I Learned
I got the chance to create a repo that included all the components necessary to be an open source project and that was a very rewarding experience for me. It definitely gave me confidence and perspective since we had everything set up for other people to contribute and for the project to grow.

Additionally, I hadn’t worked with others in a group in-person for a while so I learned a lot about work styles. Seeing the way my group members problem-solved and approached challenges made me think about ways I can improve. Our group worked well together and I’m happy with the way we approached this project. We got something minimal working relatively early in the week so we were able to iterate upon it and progress based on what features we would like to work on rather than stressing about whether we would have something to show. 

## Other Teams' Projects 
Personally, I really enjoyed YouTubeEX and Block-OFF. YouTubeEX was a simple concept but really effective and something I think I would personally use. I really admire the work that Block-OFF did because our group didn’t really get the time to research how to implement blocking certain sites even though it was a feature key to our original idea. I found their presentation informative and loved testing it out on my computer.
