---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Project Evaluation and Video Reflections"
---

## Project Evaluation Activity
This week we looked at our favorite open source projects and evaluated how beginner friendly they were. My favorite open source project is Swift, but after looking at the repository and the process for contributing, my view of them has been a bit dashed. The main thing that stands out to me is the way their issues are formatted. Issues are hosted on Jira with no clear tags to help categorize or allow newcomers to orient themselves within the codebase. There is no way to access more low-hanging fruit contributions like documentation or writing unit tests. Lots of technical jargon is also included and would take time for beginners to familiarize themselves with. These barriers to entry make it a difficult project for a beginner to work on and start making contributions to.

I do however admire their website, where they have very extensive documentation on installation and contributing. It is clear that the community is very active with pull requests being reviewed and merged several times a day. Their forums are also quite active and display a supportive community surrounding the project. However, the sheer jargon and unnavigable issues turn me away from this project. Although I love using it, actually contributing to it feels inaccessible to me, at least for now.

## Video Reflections
I really enjoyed the videos we watched this week as it was the first time I saw instances of the broad-reaching social good that open source could bring. A lot of the examples of open source projects we talked about in the beginning of class were purely software solutions for people in the tech industry or for emerging technologies, but never seemed truly life-altering for most people. The examples of open source that Red Hat showed changed the lives of individuals, entire towns, and could have the potential to change the future for all. They all seemed accessible to everyday people and focused on the societal impact it could have rather than just the tech.

One project that stood out to me was Open Data in Chile. This project focused on partnering with local potters in Chile to create an open source hardware and software solution to measure the particulate material in the air that inefficient combustion of wood burning causes. Having this data can change the quality of life for an entire community. It has empowered them to take control of their environmental conditions, their health, and improve their business practices. Based on the information they’ve collected through this project, potters have started changing to ovens that prove to be more efficient in wood-burning and release less particulate matter. 
Camilo Rodríguez-Beltrán, the Director of Innovation and Development at the Universidad del Desarrollo, says in a call to action, 
> “Communities like Pomaire can be found anywhere around your corner, your rural community around you. So my suggestion is: find your Pomaire, find your Orlandos, your partners”. 

It’s inspiring to think that open source and the people behind it can bring about meaningful change right in the communities they belong to. 