---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: Code of Conduct"
---

# Code of Conduct
In class, we read over the Code of Conduct for Go, the Contributor Covenant, Eclipse, Sugar Labs, and an open source project of our choice, for which I chose the Firebase iOS SDK. It was interesting to see how different projects go about addressing this and the similarities that carry over between them.

Having a Code of Conduct centralizes a project’s community guidelines. I think medium to large open source projects could benefit from a Code of Conduct. As the number of contributors grows, having these guidelines in place becomes crucial to help mediate conflict. 

# Go
It is clear to see the influence that the Contributor Covenant has had on Go’s Code of Conduct. Much of the structure is similar, with Go making a few additional sections and edits on parts that they saw fit. For example, Go added an About section and a section entitled “Gopher values”. I liked this change because it really unifies its contributors. They are not merely just contributors, they are gophers and it really solidifies this sense of  community. 

They also rewrote the Contributor Covenant’s Enforcement section, renaming it to “Conflict Resolution” and opening it by saying 
> “We do not believe that all conflict is bad; healthy debate and disagreement often yield positive results.” 

Go takes a much more nuanced approach to conflict, including steps for intervention without escalating it to the Project Stewards as well as more detail about the range of consequences. This can be contrasted with the Contributor Covenant’s Enforcement section, which does not mention alternative forms of resolving conflicts and mostly focuses on how to report incidents.

# Eclipse
[Eclipse’s Code of Conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php) is different from Go’s, mostly due to the fact that it is extremely similar to the Contributor Covenant. The structure is identical, with only small edits to wording within the paragraphs. 

The main thing that stands out to me is that rather than only addressing contributors and maintainers, Eclipse addresses community members, contributors, committers, and project leaders. Eclipse makes these changes which differentiate it from Go and its inspiration, the Contributor Covenant, because they appear to have multiple membership classes, which have a more formal process. For example, to become a committer, another committer must nominate that individual and then the existing committers for the project vote on it. 


# Sugar Labs
Reading the Sugar Labs project’s code of conduct after reading three very similar code of conducts was quite a change. Sugar Labs had an entirely different structure, opting to focus on guiding values such as respect, collaboration, flexibility, community-based conflict management, asking questions, and leaving the project in a sustainable way. This difference can be attributed to the projects’ different inspirations. While Go was based off of the Contributor Cove, the Sugar Labs was based off of the Ubuntu Code of Conduct. From this document, Sugar Labs picked a subset of values and added a summary of what they do, why they chose their name, and an explanation for the purpose of the document.

# Firebase iOS SDK
The [Firebase iOS SDK](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) is open source and when I was looking at their Code of Conduct, I noticed that it is very similar to the Contributor Covenant, with the exception of the Enforcement section. They replace it with a Conflict Resolution section that is nearly identical to that of Go’s Code of Conduct. As both Go and Firebase are created by Google, it makes sense that they would share documents that are as easily transferable as Codes of Conduct.

# Firefox Add-On
Working on the Firefox Add-On went smoothly and it was really satisfying to see the changes in my browser. However, because we could just copy and paste things I feel like I didn’t get to fully understand how the code worked. I don’t think I would be able to replicate those add-ons from scratch so I’m excited to implement an extension with my group and get a better idea of what’s going on under the hood. 
