---
layout: post
title: "Week 13: Presentation Day 1 and Riju Khatri"
---

# Day 1 of Presentations

This week, the Open Library, CAGOV, and first Oppia group presented on their work over the past few weeks and their interactions with the community. I was struck by both Open Library and CAGOV because of their communications with the core maintainers. It seems that a close working relationship helped them to get more accomplished, whereas the Oppia group's experiences trying to get a response resonated with me. One accurately summarized that the most successful strategy for them had been to be the “squeakiest wheel” and I can definitely relate. In the first couple days, repeatedly reaching out for help and pinging maintainers felt a bit daunting but now it's proven the most effective way to move forward.

# Guest Speaker: Riju Khatri
It was great hearing from someone that was closer in age to us about their experiences in open source and where it could go. She had very relatable experiences, such as trying to get started for several months but having difficulty navigating incomprehensible code bases and eventually giving up. She talked about the importance of finding projects that are actually beginner friendly and have the proper resources and support in place to retain new contributors. Ultimately, it was the mentor she was paired with that helped her to get her first PR opened. 

She mentioned working on projects like Fedora, OpenStack, and Mozilla, and the ways in which these experiences taught her more than even her full time job. They also helped her with career advancement, although her stories of twelve hour work days and working on open source in her few hours of free time in the mornings were a bit wild to me. It really serves as a testament to her passion for the causes behind the projects she works on.

I really admire her story and her journey and hope that I can someday have the sort of impact that she has had in open source. 


