---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: The Cathedral and the Bazaar and Choosing a Project"
---

# The Cathedral and the Bazaar
This week, we read *The Cathedral and the Bazaar*, which compares a more traditional software development model with slow releases and carefully safeguarded source code (likened to a cathedral) with the open source model with fast releases, wildly open source code, and a community-driven development process (likened to a bazaar). The reading especially delves into Linux and fetchmail as examples and successes of the bazaar model, offering 19 main points of wisdom along the way, several of which we discussed in class. I found a lot of these insightful, and broadly useful. In NYU’s CS curriculum, we don’t get much exposure to how to create a successful project beyond fulfilling predetermined, fully-scoped, and isolated requirements. Often, the focus is solely on the code and implementation, rather than viewing software as a living thing that is iterated upon, contributed to, and used by a broad group of people. By discussing software in terms of project organization, it feels like the first time I’ve been able to zoom out and see a different perspective in the classroom.

# Project Evaluations
We also did project evaluations for two projects we would be interested in contributing to. I had some difficulty with this exercise, as there were so many different projects I was interested in, but so many of them had gone stale and been abandoned, or were very blatantly not accessible as a beginner. I ended up evaluating FarmBot, a CNC farming project that allows families and schools to create small-scale farms conveniently and efficiently, and OpenFoodFacts’ iOS app. In both cases, despite the large contributor list and many, many commits, I found that most of the recent activities were spearheaded by either one or two of the same people. I also found that FarmBot stood in stark contrast to the last open source project I evaluated, Swift. Where Swift had pages upon pages of set up instructions and support for new contributors, FarmBot simply threw their brief instructions in their README.md and their CONTRIBUTING.md was just a broken link to sign their Contributor License Agreement. This disillusioned me to the idea of contributing to the project, even though it was a topic that I was initially very excited about. OpenFoodFacts was much better in this regard and this process really opened my eyes to how important it is to make your project accessible to contributors. As Eric S. Raymond says in *The Cathedral and the Bazaar*, 
> “Treating your users as co-developers is your least-hassle route to rapid code improvement and effective debugging.”

I think this is a lesson that FarmBot failed to follow, as it shooed users with issues away from the repository and towards their support email, and made the repository inaccessible to non-developers as well as developers without Ruby on Rails experience.

# Moving Forward
I’m most interested in contributing to Blender, OpenFoodFacts-iOS, Audacity, and FreeCodeCamp because they all connect back to something I’m personally passionate about. Through our talk with Christopher and *The Cathedral and the Bazaar*, I’ve realized that in order to make meaningful contributions to open source, I should choose projects that I have genuine interest in. They all seem beginner-friendly enough to be able to contribute something, and I’d love to be able to say that I made a small difference in any one of them.

I don’t have a lot of expectations going into contributing to an open source project. I think the practice of simply attempting to do so will allow me to reach my goals, which include:
1. Learning to familiarize myself in a large codebase
2. Learning best practice when contributing to open source
3. Practicing reaching out to maintainers and getting unstuck when issues arise

I think the most challenging things will include the set up and finding issues that are an appropriate level to work on. However, after the new environment is set up and an achievable starter issue has been identified, I hope to pick things up quickly and make a meaningful contribution.
