---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: Business Models of Open Source and First Oppia Issue"
---

# Monetizing open source
This week, we learned about the different business models surrounding open source, including
* Consultancies
* Subscription Offerings
* Donation model
* Open core
* Software as a Service (SaaS)
* Peace of Mind
* FUD

The one that made the largest impression on me was the FUD model, or the Fear, Uncertainty, and Doubt model. Besides the memorable name, I was surprised to learn that MongoDB was one of the companies utilizing it. Through the SSPL, if you use code under the license in certain situations, you will have to release all other components connected to it under that license as well. However, commercial proprietary licenses are available for purchase that allow companies to bypass these rules. 

It was also enlightening to hear the different strategies GitLab had tried before finally landing with the Open Core model. They had tried half of the models we discussed in class, including donations, consultancy, support, and paid development. Hearing about their trial and error process gave good insight into ways these business models might fail and how companies pivot. 

# Oppia: First Issue
This week, we got assigned issues to work on! We chose issues that seemed beginner-friendly and were recommended by our mentors. I was assigned a file for [Make typescript checks strict #10474](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/10474), but there were no errors in my file to fix. I simply added the paths for `skill-selector.component.spec.ts` and `skill-selector.component.ts` in `tsconfig_strict.json`. 

However, wanting to be able to make more of a contribution for my first pull request, I asked to be assigned an additional file to work on. I was promptly assigned a new file. However, this new file had many many errors across multiple files, several of which I’m still scratching my head over. I’m going to try and figure it out on my own for another couple days, after which if I still haven’t resolved the errors I will reach out in the gitter channel for some help. I was looking to get a bit more hands-on experience with the codebase than just adding paths so I guess I got what I was looking for. On the bright side, I’m getting a fair bit of experience in how to glean information from large, unfamiliar codebases. I hope to submit a pull request by our next team meeting on Tuesday afternoon. 

I also thought it was cool how they had pull request templates that came up when you tried to create new pull requests to make sure that they were correctly formatted. While there are a lot of guidelines to read through, it’s been nice working in such a structured and well-organized repository. They even had dedicated wiki pages for how to resolve common issues. I really admire the oppia team and I’m glad we went with this project for our first official foray into contributing code to open source.