---
layout: post
title: Week 1: Intro to Open Source
---

# Good First Issue
I've always seen open source projects on Github or Hacktoberfest events encouraging people to get started, but I've always found it difficult to contribute. I find it intimidating to enter large, unfamiliar codebases and make contributions, but I recognize that it's a skill I should become comfortable with as I move into the professional world. 

When I first heard the mystical term open source, I was drawn to the idea of a community working together to drive innovation and create. When I decided to open up an open source project to see what it was all about, I was immediately overwhelmed by the unfamiliar terms, complex folder layout, and sheer amount of code.

In classes, homework and projects entail coding individually and usually don't include too much starter code so assignments are owned end to end. Side projects are also emphasized when trying to get a job or internship, but these are also typically owned from end to end. In open source or when working for a company, there is often a steep learning curve as you familiarize yourself with the code already written and figure out how your contribution might fit in. Teamwork and collaboration are an essential part of programming in the real world and it is an aspect too often glossed over in computer science curriculums.
 

I like the concept of open source because anyone can help and contribute to a project, and I believe this community effort leads to more quality code, greater innovation, and a sense of shared responsibility. However, I recognize that it may not be the best in all cases and that closed source projects are equally as necessary. Open source seems to function on the premise of the goodness of people. Bad actors can easily ruin this. This is why code that is used for more sensitive or high-security purposes might be better left as closed source. 
 

# Open Source and Me
I've definitely tried being more involved in open source, opening an issue for some broken links and opening a pull request for a github dimmed theme I created for a github stats project. These are relatively small contributions, and I look forward to being able to become more familiar and involved in the open source community through this class.

I never thought deeply about how much of the software I interact with is open source. As I take this class, I’ve been googling around to see if the technologies and software I’ve been using are open source, and I’ve had really surprising results. So much of what I interact with on a day to day basis is thanks to the ingenuity and collaboration of this great community.

# Projects
## Visual Studio Code
I use visual studio code as my IDE and often use plug-ins and add-ons created by other users. Most notably, I used to use a [Bracket Pair Colorizer developed by CoenraadS](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=CoenraadS.bracket-pair-colorizer) to make matching brackets less of a pain and it has now become a native feature in VSCode.

## Swift
Swift was my first foray out of the Java-centric curriculum of Intro to CS and Data Structures. I went to my very first hackathon and picked up some Swift to try and build an iOS app. Since then, I've worked with it quite a bit and was surprised to learn that it's open source!

## WinSCP
I use WinSCP to transfer files onto the cims servers from my laptop. It makes the process much more visual and seamless compared to using the SCP command within terminal.

## Wikipedia
Wikipedia was my first experience with open source before I even knew what open source was. I'm eternally grateful to the many contributors that make Wikipedia what it is and enable me to get lost in Wikipedia wormholes.