---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Starting Out and Installation Pains"
---

# Installation
Installing Oppia was rife with bugs and blockers. I run a Windows machine with Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), so the process for me included referencing both the instructions for Windows as well as those for Linux. Installing all the necessary dependencies took nearly two hours, but afterwards I still ran into issues with not having the right python version and pyenv not working as expected to switch versions. Fortunately, advice from my team members as well as other teams working on Oppia helped me immensely and I was able to finally get Oppia up and running locally. 

Before this issue was resolved however, my team met up to discuss our progress and we found that all of us were facing installation issues. We decided to set a deadline for ourselves to figure it out by. Otherwise, we would switch to FreeCodeCamp, which uses GitPod to provide a ready-to-code development environment for the project right in your browser. This sounded like a dream coming from the errors upon errors in the Oppia installation process. We also filled out the CLA and Contributor Form for Oppia after hearing that we would be paired with a mentor after doing so. My mentor reached out promptly and provided me with a few different issues to get started on. 
- [#14219: Increase Per-File Backend Test Coverage](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/14219)
- [#10474: Make typescript checks strict](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/10474)
- [#8016: Backend api calls in the frontend should only happen through services](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/8016)

I indicated in my form that I was interested in learning TypeScript and writing tests. These issues fit my interests rather well and there are several files per issue so the problem of not being able to find one to work on seems unlikely. This reminds me of the phrase "Chop wood and carry water" that Tom Calloway mentioned in his guest lecture. These first few issues linked remind me of the tedious work and the low-hanging fruit that helps newcomers familiarize themselves within a codebase and integrate themselves into the community.

The phrase "Given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone" from the Cathedral and the Bazaar also comes to mind. Seeing these open issues, I would like to add that given a large enough co-developer base, immense amounts of work become manageable. It's inspiring to see just how many files have been claimed and worked on, how many are left, and the way my small contribution can build to something larger.

# Moving Forward
In the next week, I look forward to meeting with my group again so we can regroup and determine a path forward. After much headache, I'm looking forward to being able to finally get started contributing, whether that be with Oppia or FreeCodeCamp.