---
layout: post
title: "Week 8: Tom Calloway and Oppia"
---
# Tom Calloway
We were fortunate enough to have Tom Calloway come in as a guest speaker this week. He spent nearly two decades at Red Hat before moving to AWS to work as an Open Source Evangelist. 

One of my favorite parts of the talk was when he was confronted with the question, "Why did you switch to Amazon?". He expressed doubt regarding whether his critiques of Amazon would be taken seriously, and was actually told that that was why they wanted to hire him. Ultimately, he says he joined motivated by the opportunity to do good within Amazon and steer the company in a better direction. 

Similarly, some open source projects have expressed doubt and hesitance towards a large company like Amazon looking to contribute. Calloway mentioned the relationship with a partner deteriorating to such a point that they had closed their source. He revealed that it was Elastic, which AWS had previously used as a part of their Amazon Elasticsearch, and has now rebranded as Amazon OpenSearch. To avoid similar conflicts in the future, he looks to develop a process to ensure that revenues are coming back to them so they aren't cut out of the picture. It has, however, been interesting to read about Elastic's thoughts on the subject [here](https://www.elastic.co/blog/why-license-change-aws).

To maintain good relationships with open source projects they look to contribute to, Calloway says they "chop wood and carry water". This means they do the dirty work of a project, showing them that they're an asset and integrating into the community rather than trying to take over.

# Group Project
We're finally getting into contributing to an open source project! I'm partnered with Evelyn and Aashish, and we looked for a project to work on based on our shared interests. Evelyn and I have more experience in web and frontend work, while Aashish is coming in with more backend experience, so we tried to steer clear of projects that were entirely one or the other. This meant passing up on [Precious Plastic](https://github.com/ONEARMY/community-platform) (98% TypeScript), [Audacity](https://github.com/audacity/audacity) (41% C, 30% C++,  21% Python), and [Python Arcade](https://github.com/pythonarcade/arcade) (98% Python). We eventually landed on [Oppia](https://github.com/oppia/oppia), which has a good mix of frontend work and backend work to be done (46% Python, 43% TypeScript), 1.1k open issues with several of them tagged with 'good first issue', an active and welcoming community, and a compelling mission to make quality education accessible for all. 

We've mostly worked on installing Oppia, which has proved quite a laborious task on Windows. However, I'm excited to dive in and get started!
