---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Git Activity and Discussion with Jim Hall"
---

# The Git Activity
My first exposure to git came with my very first hackathon in freshman year. My group members and I would share versions by zipping the entire project folder and emailing it to one another. Later, as we decided to continue development after that weekend, the need for an actual version control system came up. I migrated to the Github Desktop client, still too intimidated by commandline git. The visualization and easy-to-understand workflow demystified git for me and I continued using the client for a while. It was not until I took Database Design in sophomore year that I started using VSCode and concurrently, discovered the git tab within it. It was a more barebones version of the desktop client I had been using, but still allowed me to easily visualize the staging area and the changes I was pushing. I used that for a while until I got tired of the lag that came with it and ultimately moved to commandline git. 

This foundation made the hands-on git activity very understandable and familiar. We forked an existing repository and cloned our fork to our local machines, where we practiced staging changes, committing, pushing, pulling from an added upstream, and resolving merge conflicts. The concept of forking was foreign to me since the bulk of my development work thus far had been to repositories I could directly modify. The discussion on remote upstreams outside of just the repository I was pushing to introduced me to a new way that git could be used and I hope to have more exposure to this as the course progresses.

Through this course, I hope that I can further grow my knowledge of git and become comfortable and confident with contributing to new open source projects.


# Discussion with Jim Hall
This week, Jim Hall came in as a guest speaker to talk about his nearly 30 years of leading FreeDOS and insights about the open source community in general. The discussion was enlightening and taught me about the importance of community and collaboration. The fact that an open source project created nearly 30 years ago is still being maintained and used is a testament to the community around it. 

## The History
He discussed at length the evolution of open source, having been involved in what we today call open source communities before the term was even coined in 1998. He described how in the beginning, open source was largely based around replicating existing closed source software. However, now open source has become a place for innovation and new ideas, so much so that companies are now looking to open source instead of the other way around.

## The Key to Success
He also emphasized the importance of usability and making open source friendly for nontechnical people. Jim Hall's definition of usability is as follows: 

> “Real people can do real things in a reasonable amount of time” 

He stated that it was the best way to make open source more accessible for nontechnical people. Adding multi-language support is one instance where nontechnical people can make contributions to open source. I was surprised when he mentioned that the project had been global since the beginning, sourcing contributions from people in India, China, and Kenya, to name a few.

Although parts of the conversation flew over my head with talks of floppy disks and versions of windows from before my birth, I came away from the talk with a better understanding of the history of open source and the community support, both technical and nontechnical, it takes for a project to succeed.
