---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Open Source in Other Industries and Oppia Progress"
---

## Open Source in Film
This week, we watched a video interviewing Carol Payne of Netflix and Larry Gritz of Sony Pictures ImageWorks. They discussed the evolution of the film industry with regards to the popularity of open source. Previously, it was more common practice to simply buy off-the-shelf software or develop it in-house. However, more recently studios have turned towards open source software. One example of this is the Academy Software Foundation, which has helped to organize open source projects over the years. While I hadn’t been aware of the foundation before, I had heard of the Academy and their role in the Oscars. I never really knew what they did, nor did I realize the extent to which they were involved in open source.

We also discussed at length the reasons why companies would gravitate towards using open source despite having to be reliant on a third party. One of the advantages that using open source affords a company is speed. By taking community versions, you can start to understand whether your business problem can be solved this way, and deliver value faster than your competitors. It allows companies to get started quickly and without too much expense.

Another advantage that stuck out to me was the ability to attract better talent. By having a global talent pool, open source projects benefit from a diverse range of ideas and skill sets. Larry had spoken on this subject during the video, mentioning how it was a better method for sourcing talent compared to the traditional job interview. Through open source contributions, you could see a potential candidate’s technical skill and the way they collaborate with others.

## Oppia
This week, we all opened pull requests for our respective issues! I am still working on getting ahold of somebody from Oppia to consult in regards to the issues I’m facing in my second file. However, I’ve created a pull request for my first file and have passed all of the end-to-end tests. I’m waiting on approval from a code owner and in the meantime, I’m looking for a suitable issue to work on next. There are a few layout issues that seem accessible at first glance, but digging through the massive codebase to see where I would have to make the changes has been tedious. For now, I’m thinking about having a go at one of these issues as a next step:
* [Fix odd gray portion in the topic viewer page #15314](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/15314)
* [course page is not responsive #14815](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/14815)
* [Broken view on contributor dashboard page #14767](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/14767)
