---
layout: post
title: "Week 14: The End!"
---
# The Final Week
It's the last week of Open Source! While the semester was filled with ups and downs, it's been extremely rewarding being able to contribute to an open source project. I even received an invitation to become a collaborator for Oppia. I know I said I probably wouldn't continue contributing to Oppia, but I think I might stick around a while longer. Unfortunately, as the semester is ending, I feel my motivation starting to dip, so hopefully I can find the time to continue to make contributions.

# Final Presentations
We presented this week! The OneArmy, Zulip, Spicetify, Blender, and Oppia groups also presented on their experiences working on their projects over the past several weeks. OneArmy is a social good platform, hosting several different initiatives. The group worked on specifically the Precious Plastic website, which makes CAD files for building machines for breaking down and working with plastic open source and widely available. They worked primarily with React and had close communications with the project maintainers.

The Blender group was composed of people who all had experience working in Blender before which I thought was cool. However, they faced a lot of issues throughout their process and it's clear to see the barrier to entry that the project has for first-time contributors. Despite this, they were able to get a diff (Blender's version of a PR?) up. They added new functionality which made it so that page up and page down would allow you to traverse a menu more quickly compared to the up and down arrows, solving a user pain point. 

Zulip is like an open-source slack and the team that worked on it was drawn in by the large community and large number of well-labeled issues. However, this large community ended up backfiring on them, as the constant influx of new contributors made it difficult to connect to maintainers and snatch good first issues before someone else did. They were able to add translations for Chinese and Punjabi, work on a phone number validator, and add user id to the profile modal. 

The Spicetify group worked on a dark mode theme for Spotify and also made some interesting design decisions in the process, moving the play button to the right and reducing text size for readability.

The second Blender group echoed many of the same obstacles that the first group did. They worked on fixing an issue where the same key was mapping as a shortcut to two different tools, but it turned out that one of the tools was nonfunctional anyways so they ended up getting rid of the shortcut for it. They had some difficulty submitting a diff and pivoted to contributing to the Blender Manual, taking on more documentation issues.

The last Oppia group worked on a couple backend issues, a linting issue, and several lesson plans, whether it be creating or editing. It was interesting to hear their experience working on nontechnical issues. It seems like they had more meaningful interactions this way, collaborating with other contributors and sitting in on meetings.