---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Brief Presentations and Oppia Progress"
---
# Presentations
Listening to the other Oppia groups, it occurred to me how similar but also how different our experiences have been. One group has been making contributions in the form of lessons and teaching material. They had even sat down for a talk with the founder! Another was delving more into backend code contributions and came across several of the issues we had as well. Obstacles such as unresponsive gitter channels, being assigned files that were already fixed, and “Good first issue”s with multiple file dependencies, all came up. It’s good to know that we’re not alone in this and it has been nice learning from one another. 

Comparing and contrasting with the experiences of other groups working on projects with smaller teams has been interesting. It’s nice hearing about the close communications they’ve had with maintainers and being able to hop on their weekly zoom calls. While we haven’t enjoyed such close relationships with the core maintainers of Oppia, another team has brought up setting up a meet-and-greet between the founder and all the Oppia groups. 

# Group Progress

This week, we worked to go beyond the “good first issue” issues we had been working on before. We each shortlisted a couple issues we thought could be approachable and have begun working on them. I’m most familiar with frontend work so I got to work on a simple reload bug on their exploration page. They were using an empty href attribute on their share button so I set the behavior to explicitly do nothing, rather than reload the page which is what it does when it is given an unspecified href. However, even though it was a simple fix I ran into some issues reaching the correct page to test it on my local machine. There were some discrepancies between the published site and my development version. I reached out and it turns out they have documentation buried deep within their wiki page that was able to resolve it. However, parts of it seem a bit out of date and this might be an issue to bring up.

I opened a pull request and got feedback to change the share button altogether from an anchor tag to something more semantic. I left a comment asking if span would be an acceptable alternative before I move ahead. I got the go-ahead and also a tip to tag the reviewer when you would like them to answer a comment. I had simply pressed the “Re-request review” button to try and get feedback, but it seems as though explicitly tagging them is the way to go. Familiarizing ourselves with their protocol has been a bit of a pain point. In the past, we’ve sat on changes for nearly a week before they responded. Despite their robust documentation, this might also be a place in which the wiki could be improved.

In the meantime, I’ve been working on a responsive design issue they have been facing on their splash page. Some of their components have been floating a bit too far from each other on wider screens. Their previous layout method was a bit needlessly complex, adding width properties to the individual flex-items and specific offsets from the sides to try and center them more evenly. I simplified it by adding a gap between the two flex items, clearing the styling from the flex-items, and centering them so they would remain an appropriate distance apart no matter the width.
